

### Administrator (Issuer) [Ministry of Road and Transportation]

The Administrator (Issuer) plays a crucial role in issuing verifiable credentials (VC) to entities. The scripts demonstrate how to effectively utilize the Onyx SSI SDK to carry out all tasks related to the traffic incidents. This includes creating a DID (Decentralized Identifier) for the Issuer, generating and signing Verifiable Credentials.

Within the issuer section, you'll find a schema section that defines the structure for the subject data of the verifiable credential. This directory allows you to experiment and create custom schema types tailored to your specific requirements. As part of this examples repository, we have included a pre-defined `proofOfName` schema.

### Citizen (Holder)

The Citizen (Holder) is the entity who claims, shares, and manages their Verifiable Credentials. The examples showcase how the Onyx SSI SDK can be leveraged from the Holder's perspective. Developers will learn how to create a DID, generate Verifiable Presentations (VP) with their desired Credentials, and digitally sign the Presentation for identity verification.

### Dispatcher, Command and Control Center (Verifier)

The Verifier is an entity seeking to validate claims that a Holder presents. These examples demonstrate how to perform relevant verification. These include JWT verification of the Credential and Presentation and status checks of DIDs within the Credential.

### Holistic technology perspective

This repository also demonstrates integrating the SDK into an end-to-end SSI ecosystem, enabling developers to customize digital identity solutions.

With the Onyx SSI SDK and these examples, you'll be equipped to develop robust and interoperable SSI solutions, enhancing digital identity management across diverse applications and industries.


## Prerequisites

To run the examples in this repository, you need:

- Node.js v16 or higher installed on your system.
- A basic understanding of TypeScript.
- A configured `.env` file. You'll find a `.env.example` in the root of this project, which outlines the necessary environment variables.


## Getting Started

1. **Clone the Repository**

   Use the following command to clone this repository to your local machine:

   ```
   git clone repo
   ```

2. **Navigate to the Directory**

   Enter the root directory of the cloned repository with:

   ```
   cd De-Tranport-Monitor
   ```

3. **Configure Environment Variables**

   Rename the `.env.example` file to `.env` and fill it with your own information.

4. **Install Dependencies**

   Before running any scripts, ensure to install all necessary dependencies:

   ```
   npm install
   ```

## Repository Structure

- `src/`: This directory is the root of the examples repository and contains three subdirectories: `citizen (holder)`, `Administrator (issuer)`, and `Dispatcher, Command and Control Center (verifier)`. Each subdirectory houses TypeScript scripts showcasing specific functionalities of the Onyx SSI SDK, corresponding to the respective roles.
- `src/utils/`: In this directory, you will find various helper scripts that facilitate the implementation of the examples within this repository. These utility scripts streamline certain processes and enhance the overall development experience.
- `src/verifiable_credentials/`: This directory serves as the default storage location for all verifiable credentials generated by the issuer scripts. If needed, you can modify the storage location for these credentials by updating the .env file.
- `src/verifiable_presentation/`: Similar to the verifiable_credentials directory, this folder acts as the default storage location for all verifiable presentations generated by the holder scripts. If necessary, you can adjust the storage location for these presentations in the .env file.

## Usage

Navigating the usage of this examples repository is simple and straightforward. Follow these steps to get familiar with the Onyx SSI SDK functionalities:

1. Start from the Issuer section:

   - Here, you will learn how to create and sign a Verifiable Credential. This fundamental step lays the foundation for the rest of the SSI ecosystem.
   - Execute the relevant scripts provided in the `issuer` subdirectory to experience the issuance process.
   - To issue a Verifiable Credential, the issuer needs to follow a two-step process. First, they must create the VC and then they must sign that VC. You can simply run the "src/issuer/create-and-sign-vc.ts" script, which demonstrates the creation and signing of the VC and generates a "proofOfName" VC. This Verifiable Credential is then stored in the location specified by the "VC_DIR_PATH" environment variable, with the default location being "src/verifiable_credentials".

2. Proceed to Holder section:

   - This part focuses on creating and signing a Verifiable Presentation, enabling the Holder to present their identity credentials securely.
   - Run the appropriate scripts located in the `holder` subdirectory to grasp the Holder's role in the SSI workflow.
   - To create a Verifiable Presentation, the holder needs to follow a two-step process. First, they must create the VP from an existing VC and then they must sign that VP. You can simply run the "src/holder/create-and-sign-vp.ts" script, which demonstrates the creation and signing of the VP from the VC created in step 1. This Verifiable Presentation is then stored in the location specified by the "VP_DIR_PATH" environment variable, with the default location being "src/verifiable_presentation".

3. Finally, move to the Verifier section:
   - In this part, you will utilize the Verifiable Presentation created in Step 2 to verify the Verifiable Credential generated at Step 1.
   - Execute the applicable scripts found in the `verifier` subdirectory to understand how verification occurs in the SSI ecosystem.
   - To verify a Verifiable Presentation you can simply run the "src/verifier/verify.ts" script, which demonstrates the verification flow.

To run a specific example, consult the package.json file, which contains instructions on running individual scripts. For instance, to execute a given script, use the following command:

```
npm run $script
```

Replace \$script with the actual script name specified in the package.json file to launch the corresponding functionality.

## How to Contribute

Contributions to this repository are always welcome. Please refer to our `CONTRIBUTING.md` file for detailed information on how you can contribute.

## Issues

If you encounter any issues while using these examples or the SDK, feel free to open an issue in this repository. We'll do our best to address your concerns.

<!-- ## Support

For further assistance, don't hesitate to contact us at [Email].

## License

This project is licensed under the [Your License Name]. Please refer to the `LICENSE` file for more details. -->

